Repo Link:
https://github.com/Zack-River/27_-Git-Github-and-Version-Control

Learnt:
KeyWords:

Git
Github
ls -a
git log
git status
git add file.txt
git commit -m "message"
q to cancel
git diff file.txt
git checkout file.txt
Working area
Staging area
Local Repository
Remote Repository
echo "message" >> file.txt
git branch -m main
git remote add origin "link"
git push -u origin main
Main branch
git rm --cached -r .
.gitignore
git clone "url"
git branch name
git branch
git checkout branch-name
git merge branch-name
git rebase branch-name
git checkout -b branch-name
git checkout commit-name


Notes:

1- Git:
Version Control System Where you turn every change/update into a version of project.

2- git init:
to initialize a git repo to Control all versions of project inside.

3- ls -a:
to show all files in folder even hidden ones.

4- git status:
to track all changes happened on project (working area) that not on staging area and their state.

5- git add file.txt / .:
move changes into changing file with their version to be ready to commit.

6- git commit -m "message":
make a commit for all changes in staging area.

7-Working area:
folder that you make changes in before it add to staging area and commited.

8- Staging area:
files updated are ready to get commited.

9- Local Repository:
Where All Commits Go as versions

10- git diff file.txt / .:
differ between current version of file and last one in staging area and commited.

11- git checkout file.txt / .:
to undo or rollback to the latest commited version (Stable and tested one).

12- git branch -m main:
change master branch name to main.

13- git remote add origin "link":
Adds a new remote repository with name origin to this link to host this repo online.

14- git push origin main -u:
git push => Pushes changes from your local repo to the remote repo.
-u => Sets the upstream branch so that future git push and git pull commands work without specifying origin main.
origin => The name of the remote repository (default is origin).
main => The branch you are pushing (you can replace main with any branch name).

15- Main branch:
main timeline of commits.

16- .gitignore:
File Where we write name of file and folders that you don't want to add to the git repository.
it will be only on working area and not in staging area.

17- git clone "url":
cloning a remotely public hosted repository on your local machine to edit improve or fix this code.

18- git branch name:
To make new branch to edit on the same code on 2 paraller seperated versions

19- git branch:
to show all branches in this repo.

20- git checkout branch-name:
switch code version into this branch.

21- git merge branch-name:
done in main to merge all changes in branch with the main one.

22- git rebase branch-name:
to look like that that our latest commit in current branch happened sequentially after latest commit in the specified branch.

23- git checkout -b branch-name:
Create branch and Switch to.

24- git checkout commit-name:
to detach the head pointer from a branch name into a commit name to go to this specified commit witout affect branch.

25-